Hello, and welcome to this month's broadcast.
With me, I have a good friend as my co-host, Leon Viva.
Leon, what do we have to look forward to this time?
Thanks, Brother Lush.
We'll see a young brother who must choose between his loyalty to Jehovah
or to a close friend.
Which will he choose?
Then, we'll hear the story of Rafika Mars, a young woman
who desperately fought for racial equality
but eventually discovers the real path to peace.
And we'll also enjoy a new music video
that beautifully highlights the importance of putting our confidence in Jehovah.
We have much to look forward to on this March 2018 edition of JW Broadcasting.
The theme for this month is, in whom do you trust?
Do you trust me?
I hope so.
All of us want to be trusted.
A trust is a basic element of everyday life.
To trust others is a normal reaction.
Many of us have traveled on the train or bus.
Did we worry whether the conductor or driver would bring a safely to our destination?
Normally, we do not worry.
We trust an airplane captain to take us safely to our destination.
We trust that when we enter an elevator
that it will not crash at the bottom of the shaft
but safely take us to the desired floor.
When we marry, we trust that our partner will remain faithful.
In many situations in life, we need trust.
What is trust?
Trust is the firm belief in the reliability, truth or ability of someone or something.
Webster's dictionary says that it is confidence, a reliance or a resting of the mind
on the integrity, veracity, justice, friendship, or other sound principle of another person.
Trust is related to confidence, belief, faith and assurance.
Experiments conducted by Professor Dr. Mikhail Kosfeld, a professor at a university in Frankfurt, Germany,
led him to the conclusion that trust is a biologically-based part of human nature.
Kosfeld discovered that when there's interaction between two people,
the human brain releases a hormone that stimulates trust.
It is, in fact, one of the distinguishing features of the human species, Kosfeld states.
In everyday life, how discouraged some are if they are not trusted.
The phrase, don't you trust me?
Is frequently heard with an undertone of sadness or complaint?
Sometimes children or teenagers ask their parents, don't you trust me?
When the parents place some restrictions on them, perhaps in connection with leisure time activities?
Parents do that because they love you young ones and want to prevent any spiritual or physical harm before you.
If you cooperate, you will see that parents will gradually trust you ever more and grant you more liberty to you.
You can prove to them that you are trustworthy.
In the world, many people are not trustworthy.
Since we are living in the time of the end and the demons are desperate and have influenced many people,
we have to admit that trusting in everybody is not wise.
Many trusted in religion and were disappointed.
Others trusted in governments or the United Nations, but they were disappointed.
They trusted political leaders that made all kinds of promises, but did not keep all of them.
Some politicians even were exposed as being liars.
Proverbs 14, 15 says,
The naive person believes every word, but the shrewd one ponders each step.
If somebody, even in the truth, promises as big monetary returns if we give him money for his plant investment,
we need to be careful and not believe every word.
Some that spent their money were in for a disappointment when they learned that everything was lost.
We also should not trust everything we read in newspapers or see on television.
There's another thing we should not trust in.
Riches. Some 49, 6 speaks about those who are trusting in their wealth and who boast about their great riches.
Trusting in riches often leads to disappointment.
The one trusting in his riches will fall, says Proverbs 11, 28.
It is not wrong to be rich, just do not trust in riches.
Riches are a risk factor.
Many people today are dishonest and cheat.
Some business owners have installed cameras at the workplace since they do not trust their employees to put in a full day of work.
They know that some would play video games during work hours.
But Jehovah created us with the inclination to trust.
We can especially trust our spiritual brothers.
True, once in a while such trust is misplaced.
A few commit serious sins and have to be disfellowshed, but that is rare.
Jehovah himself is the best example of trusting in others.
He trusted the logos to faithfully cooperate with him as the master worker in creating the universe, the earth,
and all the living things on earth, including mankind.
What tremendous trust Jehovah showed in Jesus when he sent him to the earth.
Jehovah trusted that Jesus would remain faithful and redeem mankind so that his will and purpose with mankind and the earth could be accomplished.
Jehovah trusted him so much that he arranged for prophecies to be written that foretold that he would die faithfully.
This trust on the part of Jehovah was not a risk.
It was based on the collaboration between the two for eons of time.
Think of the prophecy in Psalm 1610,
for you will not leave me in the grave.
Jesus had free will.
This means that theoretically he could have sinned.
If he could not have sinned, Satan would probably not have tried three times to tempt Jesus to sin.
If Jesus could not have sinned, why would he be so heavily distressed in the Garden of Gethsemane that he was sweating blood?
Why send an angel to comfort and strengthen him if he could not sin or fail anyway?
No question.
Jesus felt the unfathomable load on his shoulders to remain faithful,
since not only the salvation of mankind depended on him, but also the vindication of Jehovah's sovereignty.
He did not want to disappoint Jehovah.
Jesus used his own free will and was determined to stay loyal.
How glad we are that he did.
On the other hand, Jesus also trusted Jehovah completely.
He trusted Jehovah that he would resurrect him if he would die faithfully.
Actually, Jesus was publicly known to trust in Jehovah.
People that passed by when he was on the torture stake were saying,
he has put his trust in God, let him now rescue him if he wants him.
For he said, I am God's son.
Another example of trust was Abraham.
When God told him to kill his beloved son Isaac, Abraham was willing to do so.
He trusted that Jehovah could resurrect him.
Hebrews 11.19 says, he reasoned that God was able to raise him up even from the dead
and he did receive him from there in an illustrative way.
1 Corinthians 137 says, that love believes all things.
Love trusts that prophecies will come true.
It also believes what our brothers tell us.
It also helps to grant others the benefit of the doubt if a matter could be interpreted in different ways.
Yes, trusting others is an expression of love.
If you love somebody, you only assume and think the best of him.
Another example of trust in Jehovah was Moses.
He led the nation of Israel out of Egypt into the desert.
A nation of upwards of three million people
and they had flocks of cattle and sheep with them.
When he left Egypt, did he know how to provide these great crowds with water in the desert?
Did he know what they would be eating after the initial foodstuffs that they took out of Egypt would run out?
Did he know in advance that Jehovah would miraculously provide the manner?
It doesn't seem so.
But he trusted that Jehovah would take care of the people.
The three friends of Daniel were another fine example of trust.
They did not bow and worship in front of an idol that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
They were told they would be thrown into a fiery furnace if they disobeyed.
They remained firm and were protected by an angel,
so the fire did not do any harm to them.
After that, Nebuchadnezzar then declared,
praised be the God of Shadrach, Mishak and Abednego,
who sent his angel and rescued his servants.
They trusted in him and went against the command of the King
and were willing to die rather than serve or worship any God except their own God.
As we are getting ever closer to the great tribulation,
we might be confronted with scary challenges and tests related to nationalism.
Will we keep trusting Jehovah?
We trust we will.
Jehovah will miraculously save his people throughout the great tribulation
and arrange for their survival.
Today, the faithful slave was put in charge of providing spiritual food for God's people
who number into the millions.
The slave also shows complete trust in Jehovah
that he will guide them with his Holy Spirit.
What makes it possible for the faithful and discreet slave
to provide precious spiritual food?
I will give you insight and structure in the way you should go,
says Jehovah, Psalm 32 verse 8.
Today, Jehovah provides direction to the slave through Jesus.
Jesus, in turn, provides direction for his people through the faithful and discreet slave.
We can have, therefore, full confidence in the scriptural insight, understanding and guidance.
Satan tries to sow mistrust.
Under Communist dictatorship in Romania,
the secret police officers forced a responsible brother to walk with them
on a heavily frequented street,
hoping that other brothers would see this
and wrongly conclude that this brother works with the secret police.
Did the scheme work out?
No, it failed.
Brothers did see him but kept trusting him.
We learn that we should not quickly lose trust in our brothers.
Satan also has the scheme to spread rumors about faithful brothers,
including the faithful slave.
The method of spreading rumors is not new.
When Jesus was resurrected and the tomb was empty,
the soldiers that reported it were told to spread the rumor that the disciples came
and stole the body at night.
March 28, 15, relates.
So they took the silver pieces and did as they were instructed.
And this story has been spread abroad among the Jews up to this very day.
Another rumor in the first century was that Christians were responsible for the great fire of Rome.
Could such accusation be true?
Historians say that it was narrow,
the emperor who set fire to the city.
Today rumors are occasionally being spread in electronic form about the faithful slave.
This has caused some concern on the part of some brothers,
especially when the reports are commenting on court cases
where some in the organization were accused.
Sometimes references made to certain quotes and readers then think,
how can a quote be a rumor?
A quote can be taken out of context.
Critical reports often give only part of a matter and leave out other aspects.
Often such rumors play on the emotions.
Ask yourself, am I prone to believe rumors?
And even if I am, should I spread it and undermine the trust that others have in the slave or in representative
of the branch office?
Avoid sensationalism by saying something like,
can you believe what I heard about this matter or that matter?
Or this person or that person referring to a statement that may have appeared on Facebook, YouTube or Twitter?
The spread of rumors is like wildfire that is hard to control.
It spreads distrust and can undermine someone's faith.
This is not to say that the slave is perfect and never makes mistakes,
but Jehovah and Jesus trust the imperfect slave who cares for things to the best of his ability
and with the best of motives.
Shouldn't we then trust the imperfect slave as well?
To appreciate the extent of Jehovah's and Jesus trust in the faithful slave
reflect on what he has promised its members.
He has promised them immortality and incorruption.
Soon, just before Armageddon, the remaining members of the slave will be taken to heaven.
Since 1919 of our common era, the slave has been put in charge of some belongings of Christ.
According to Matthew 24, 47, when the anointed are taken to heaven,
Jesus will at that point in trust all His belongings to them.
Does this not reveal immense trust?
Revelation 4.4 describes these resurrected anointed as co-rulers with Christ.
Revelation 22.5 says they will rule not only for a thousand years,
but for ever and ever.
What immense trust Jesus shows toward them.
Since Jehovah God and Jesus Christ completely trust the faithful and discreet slave,
should we not do the same?
Many servants of Jehovah in the past show trust in Jehovah when confronted with obstacles or opposition.
We can trust that Jehovah will not let us be tested beyond what we can bear,
but will provide a way out so we can remain faithful under trials.
So whom do you trust?
You fully trust in Jehovah, Jesus, and the faithful slave.
To a reasonable degree, you also trust all your fellow brothers and sisters.
The writer of Psalm 142 mentions something else we need to trust in.
God's Word.
He wrote, for I put my trust in your Word.
The prophecies in God's Word have always come true at the proper time.
Based on that, we can trust fully that the remaining prophecies pointing to the survival of the great tribulation
and to the paradise to follow will also come true without the slightest possibility of failure.
Of course, we should trust not only Jehovah, Jesus, the faithful slave, and the Bible,
but also our fellow brothers.
The Apostle Paul is a fine example of this.
He wrote in Philemon, or two, Philemon, asking him to kindly receive back the runaway slave
on SMS that had become a brother.
Paul wrote in Philemon 21,
I'm confident that you will comply, so I'm writing you, knowing that you will do even more than what I say.
When we speak of trust, we sometimes think of a little child, a walking hand in hand with his father.
The child does not question whether father will take him.
The child trusts the father.
All throughout the last days, true Christians have faced hostility of so many in the world.
How strengthening Jehovah's promises in view of the impending attack by Satan's hordes?
When they attack, Jehovah's people will seem as defenseless,
but we do not need to quake with fear.
We trust that Jehovah, Jesus, and the angels will fight to deliver us.
We will not shrink back in fear.
In Hebrews 10, 39, Paul wrote,
Now we are not the sort who shrink back to destruction,
but the sort who have faith for the preserving of our lives.
Today and after Armageddon,
all can say according to Psalm 261 and 52, 8,
I have trusted in Jehovah without wavering.
My trust is in God's loyal love forever and ever.
Therefore, keep trusting in Jehovah and those who are proving loyal to Him.
Back to you, Leon.
Thank you, Brother Lush.
In line with that, we all want good friends.
We can trust.
The type mentioned at the parlor, 1824,
where it says there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.
But at times, we may find that a close friend needs spiritual help.
Do we fear losing that friendship if we speak up?
What does Jehovah want us to do?
In the following dramatization,
the young man Danny faces these same questions.
I had a secret.
Only.
It wasn't mine to tell.
It was my best friends.
Julian.
This was not the Julian I knew.
At the end of the meeting,
Brother Max wanted to know if I was okay.
I shrugged it off.
I just didn't know who to talk to at that point.
A few years ago,
my parents stopped attending meetings.
Julian was there for me.
I didn't want to lose my friend,
but did I really know him?
I decided to ask Julian about the pictures he posted.
I told him it wasn't right.
He needed to talk to the elders.
Then he got really defensive about it.
I knew I did the right thing.
I just needed someone to talk to.
Brother Max wanted to know how I was really doing.
He could tell something was wrong.
So...
I opened up.
I told him everything.
I didn't want to get my friend in trouble.
Max understood.
He asked me to read James 5 verses 14 and 15.
Is there anyone sick among you?
Let him call the elders of the congregation to him.
And let them pray over him,
applying oil to him in the name of Jehovah.
And the prayer of faith will make this sick one well.
And Jehovah will raise him up.
Max showed me that the elders can encourage
and strengthen a spiritually weak person.
Covering up a friend's wrongdoing
prevents him from getting the spiritual help he needs.
All this time,
I was focused on Julian and his deception.
And I didn't speak up.
I'm glad I was honest with Brother Max.
The elders are like your spiritual doctors.
And even more,
there are friends.
They want to help us.
Julian might receive discipline,
but that's an expression of Jehovah's love.
It could save his spiritual life.
Julian got the spiritual help he needed.
And I kept my best friend.
Did you notice how our young brother
put trust in the Bible and acted accordingly?
How can we do the same?
Brother Ron Kerzen's morning worship comment.
Share some thoughts on specific ways
we can continue to make spiritual adjustments
as we encounter a variety of life challenges.
These are very practical comments.
And they all tie in well with what the Apostle Paul
was trying to tell those in the Ephesian congregation
about examining themselves.
The same way we have to do today.
Examining ourselves so that we please Jehovah.
If you'd like, please open up to Ephesians chapter 5
and we'll read verse 10, which is our theme scripture.
Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 10.
It says keep on making sure of what is acceptable to the Lord.
And then it goes on in verse 11
and stop sharing in the unfruitful works
that belong to the darkness,
rather expose them for what they are.
So it's very clear to us in this chapter of Ephesians chapter 5
that there are things that Jehovah views as acceptable
and he views as unacceptable.
Jehovah's standard of what is unacceptable
is outlined in quite a few of the verses in chapter 5 here.
If you would just scan through verse 3, 4 and 5
we'll see that unwholesome talk about sex, shameful conduct,
obscene gesting, and then verse 18, drunkenness.
Well, these are things that will bar us from God's kingdom.
When you think about entertainment today,
it's merely impossible to try to find something
that is acceptable to Jehovah
that does not have immoral sex, pornography,
spiritism, and violence.
Satan has thoroughly saturated all forms
of the media, so thoroughly that it's in our literatures
and movies, it's in electronic games
or everything that we can think of.
Satan has infiltrated.
Yes, he knows that Jehovah hates these things
and he doesn't mind if part of our heart hates these things
as long as part of our heart loves these things.
So we do well to ask ourselves,
does the entertainment that I choose?
Does it help me in my being acceptable to Jehovah?
Does it help me to have the qualities
that Jehovah endures in us and will draw closer to us?
Well, the spirit of the world reflects rebellion
of the Bible, which outlines Jehovah's qualities
and his standards.
We want to show respect for the Bible,
which teaches us to love what Jehovah loves
and hate what he hates.
And what will help us to do this
and resist the spirit of the world
and draw closer to Jehovah and be acceptable to him?
Let's notice verse 17, chapter 5 and verse 17.
It says on this account, stop being unreasonable,
but keep perceiving what the will of Jehovah is.
We need to constantly think,
what would Jehovah want me to do?
Well, verse 1 and verse 2 helps us to appreciate this.
It says, become imitators of God as beloved children
and go on walking in love just as the Christ also loved us.
He gave himself up for us as an offering
and a sacrifice, a sweet fragrance to God.
So bottom line, we need to imitate Jehovah and Jesus.
Our sacrifices need to be acceptable to Jehovah as was Jesus.
What made Jesus so pleasing?
Well, he did everything way Jehovah wanted him to do.
In fact, he said something that we want to say one day,
I always do the things pleasing to him.
And one day in perfection, we will be able to say that.
Jesus was pleasing in his word, in his deed, in his actions.
Well, how can we imitate Jesus and thus imitate Jehovah?
Well, let's briefly discuss three ways.
First, pray for God's Holy Spirit.
When confronted with trials, what did Jesus do?
He did not rely on himself.
He petitioned Jehovah for help.
So if we're struggling with a temptation,
a certain fleshly weakness,
it's vital that we do the same.
We can also talk to the elders,
our loving shepherds who will pray with us
and they will definitely help us to remain faithful
with words of encouragement.
Number two, obey Jehovah completely.
Jesus always did things that were pleasing to his father.
Luke 22, 42 said,
let not my will, but yours take place.
Remember, there's no substitute for obedience.
We cannot be acceptable without obedience.
Number three, know the scriptures well.
Jesus used God's word as his authority.
His whole life revolved around knowing and obeying
and encouraging others about God's laws.
We all have busy schedules.
We have work to do, busy in a congregation.
It's more than just trying to find time
to dig deep into God's word.
We must make the time.
So what do our schedules tell us about our love for Jehovah,
our love for his word?
Do we read the Bible daily?
And if we do, how much time do we take to let it sink
into our mind and our heart and to meditate?
Are we content with just looking at the basics,
the surface or digging deep and deep below the surface?
It's vital that we train our minds and our hearts,
but it takes time and it takes effort.
Just as a marathon runner must devote
much time and effort to his training to run a race.
In fact, as we know, Christians are like
into running a race and it's a race for life.
Let's see whether Apostle Paul had to tell us
if we go over to first Corinthians.
First Corinthians chapter nine,
scripture we know very well.
And we'll start in verse 24.
There's a few key elements that we would like to extract
as we're reading these verses.
Here Paul said,
do you know that the runners in a race all run
but only one receives the prize?
Run in such a way that you may win it.
Now, everyone competing in a contest,
exercises self-control in all things.
There's a key.
Of course, they do not receive a crown that can perish,
but one that does not perish.
Therefore, the way I am running is not aimlessly.
The way I am aiming my blows is so as not to strike,
striking the air,
but I pummel my body and the footnote says,
punish strictly discipline and lead it as a slave.
So that after I have preached to others,
I myself should not become disapproved
or the footnote says disqualified somehow.
So we definitely want to have self-control like a runner.
We need to say no to Satan's world
and yes to things that are acceptable to Jehovah.
And we definitely want to make sure
that we are acceptable and never to be disapproved.
Perhaps we can illustrate this
in a 1994 New York City marathon.
There was a young man named Hermann Silva
and he ran an outstanding race.
In fact, there was only a half mile
to the finish line in Central Park
and somehow he got distracted.
He took the wrong path.
Did he lose the race?
Well, the lead runner took over.
Well, he got redirected.
He went back on the path.
He began to run faster and faster.
He passed up the lead runner
and he won the New York City Marathon in two seconds.
What does this tell us?
It tells us that sometimes we can lose our focus.
We can be sidetracked
or we could get involved in unacceptable conduct
but allow God's word and loving shepherds
to readjust our course, never give up.
Just a few years later after that, 1997,
Hermann began running again in a New York City marathon.
He thought he had this one all in the bag.
He thought he was going to win this race
but he started to run slower.
He began to dehydrate it.
Instead of taking just a few seconds to hydrate,
he skipped that.
He thought he could do it.
Well, what could this tell us?
Well, we cannot afford to take shortcuts.
We need to have a regular intake of spiritual food
to keep pace with Jehovah's organization.
We do this by what the commenters told us today.
That is a regular intake of God's word and meditation.
As we run the Christian course, the race for life.
Remember, it's not the speed, it's the direction.
That's what matters the most.
I mean, we always run in such a way
that is acceptable to Jehovah.
As Brother Curza mentioned,
certainly a regular intake of God's word
can have a dramatic effect on our lives.
Take the example of Raphika Morris.
Her life later on asserts her ways
to achieve racial harmony through human means.
But after years of frustration and disappointments,
how would studying the Bible affect
her search for answers?
Growing up in the South,
during the time of segregation,
blacks and whites, we couldn't mix.
And not only that,
they had signs to keep you knowing
where you're supposed to go.
I couldn't understand why we couldn't get along.
Good to see you.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Grandma, he's just a boy.
Why are you saying, sir?
Be quiet.
I want you to know your place.
I told her after we got back on the truck,
you know what?
I'll never hold my head down, you know.
My grandmother,
she knew I had a love for the Bible
because I would always read the Bible as a kid.
But I couldn't understand it.
I used to pray,
what makes us so different?
You know, why we can't live together?
I met a group.
And this group was like,
what I really wanted to be in.
It was about politics.
They said we fight injustice.
And when they said that we're injustice,
it was like, yeah,
this is what I want to be in, right?
Be part of something that could change
and make people unite it, right?
That was my goal.
We started protesting about police brutality.
And I think that's what a lot of people,
you know, was focusing on.
I liked some of the things that they was doing.
But they've trained us every, every day
in a military training,
learn how to use weapons and stuff like that.
And so I'm thinking like,
this is not what I want to be in.
This is not what I join.
So I start like going back to God again,
to read the Bible because it's like,
I'm not changing anything.
The Bible that I was reading was a King James Version.
So I was reading it, reading it, reading it.
But I couldn't understand it.
We went to Jamaica.
And I saw this Bible,
the New World translation.
And I started reading it and it made so much sense.
I could understand it and it wasn't the end of it.
I was like, wow.
You know, like, this is the one I want to get.
One day two women knocked on the door.
I didn't know David's Jehovah's Witnesses.
All I could see was a Bible.
And I said, what did you get the Bible from?
And they said, okay, we'll bring you one.
And they did.
So they brought me the Bible.
But I didn't know I was going to have
a Bible study come along with it.
The first time I went to a convention
about Jehovah's Witnesses,
it was like 10,000 people.
When I go in there and I see all these
different faces and different colors,
it's like Jehovah showing me like, hey, Rafika.
Remember you asked me about
all different people getting together
and being one, see, I'm not partial.
They do get along.
We are unified.
And it just made me feel so good inside.
Yes, this is the organization that I want to be in.
I just see people as people, you know.
And I can be friends with anybody.
Now that I know what the Bible really teaches,
I have a wonderful life.
Because I know that I'm the only God
in his government can bring about peace.
Just like I do with unified everybody,
all like for everybody to be unified
and come to know Jehovah,
just like I know him.
Jehovah, that's my prayer.
While Rafika faced unique challenges
early in her spiritual life,
she learned to trust in Jehovah.
Trust is also needed.
If we choose to extend ourselves
in a new form of kingdom service,
this is especially true.
Of those who have had the privilege
to attend a school for kingdom evangelizers.
Their personal experiences confirm this.
I have an illness that affects my level of energy.
So I didn't feel that I could accept
just any kind of assignment.
Since the end of this system is near,
I want to do whatever I can
that Jehovah wants down to the very end.
So I applied.
Before attending SKE when I received my invitation,
all of a sudden I had challenges
or worries about myself.
I felt unworthy, even unqualified.
Being a single sister,
going into the class with so many couples,
I thought I would be out of place.
I used all my abilities.
I felt like my head was swelling up.
Even so, I felt that I was really being refined
and ended each day feeling fulfilled.
Something that I really enjoyed about SKE
was Friday afternoons.
That's when we had a talk
from one of the governing body members.
That was special.
During the eight weeks of school,
such an emphasis was placed
on serving with a needy-scrater.
So this way of thinking became more important to us.
After eight weeks attending the school,
you are even ready to be set to the moon.
When I was told that my next assignment
would be in Mesa, Arizona,
I thought, where is that?
And then I thought, oh no, scorpions.
And then I thought, okay,
this is where to hold what things I should be,
so I'm ready to go.
One of the challenges in my new assignment
was finding suitable accommodation.
There was a couple in the congregation.
They had two rooms that they rented
in the back of their property,
but it needed some renovations.
So the brothers very quickly came together,
helped, sorted out,
and even build an extra little kitchenette lounge.
So now we have a beautiful little home
and to go back to,
offer a long, hot day in the ministry.
I always thought that I'd do much better in cold
than I would in heat.
So the brothers and sisters were very helpful
in making sure that I stayed hydrated,
making sure I knew how to handle myself in the heat,
giving me pointers of things to carry,
and they made sure that I had an extra large,
water bottle with me.
We really felt supported by the congregation
because they found us an apartment.
This meant that we could concentrate on our ministry.
One of the things that really helped me
was an experienced brother
who gave an encouraging comment
about whether my health would permit me to attend the school.
He said, if she can pioneer,
then it's also possible for her to attend the school.
The education that we received at SKE,
especially it helped us with our qualities,
our personality, putting on a new personality,
that really will help us not only now in our assignment,
but right through into the new world.
I think there are many who could meet the qualifications
with just a little more effort.
Please know that there is a wonderful education program
and we were able to experience it in our 60s.
We could get through it.
So if others are thinking of applying,
I want to tell them that we were able to do it.
And by all means I want them to taste the same joy
that we experienced.
You could be nervous and have performance anxiety
and worry about how will I handle answering
and how about all of the student assignments
and the test worries like that.
But for my own part,
it was two months with an incredible amount of joy.
And you have to focus on that.
It is a gift.
It is a wonderful gift from Jehovah.
I wasn't sure if I was going to put in the application
because I thought maybe I wanted to do it as a couple
rather than as a single person.
But I prayed to Jehovah about it
and I put my application in.
I wouldn't be experiencing the happiness that I have now
if I had waited.
So I'm happy that I just put my application in
and let Jehovah do the rest.
And now sometimes I'm driving down the freeway
and I think, wow, Jehovah, I'm so happy.
Thank you.
These experiences,
remind me of Colossians chapter 3, verse 23 and 24,
which reads,
whatever you're doing,
work at it whole sold as for Jehovah and not for men.
For you know that it is from Jehovah,
you will receive the inheritance as reward,
slave for the master, Christ.
And certainly these brothers and sisters
are doing just that.
If you personally find yourself in a position
to reach out for a privilege such as attending this school
or moving to where the need is great,
give a consideration.
Now we travel to Costa Rica
where we find our brothers and sisters relying on Jehovah
as they prepare for a very special assembly.
Why was trust in Jehovah essential
for this project?
First, we asked the branch for permission.
Once they gave us approval,
we began to make preparations for the assembly,
though we had absolutely nothing.
So one brother lent us a property for the assembly set.
Our brothers have brought many different skills to the project.
There are metal workers, cabinet makers, and brick layers.
Many brothers have given up their resources
and used their abilities so that this project could go ahead.
This is really made us stand out here.
People were asking each other,
what is happening here, and who paid for all of this?
They say people are surprised at how many workers are coming to help.
And I wonder, if this is getting attention now,
what will the assembly be like?
A comfortable, practical and secure assembly hall was constructed,
using materials acquired locally.
Expectation grew as the special day drew closer.
And when it finally arrived,
those in attendance experienced something truly moving.
With Jehovah's help, many interested ones,
along with our brothers and sisters,
have come here today to celebrate our first assembly in Brebury language.
Friends, this is wonderful.
When the program started in Brebury, I cried.
I'm so happy to have participated in the assembly,
especially because it's in my own language.
It's what we wanted.
We hope it continues just like this.
We walked a long way to invite these people.
And to see them here, it makes me very happy.
The information presented in the local language touched many hearts.
This was truly an historic event for our Indigenous brothers in Costa Rica.
Jehovah has made it possible for more people in this isolated region
to enjoy his spiritual blessing.
Did you note why trust in Jehovah was so essential for this project?
At the start, the brothers had nothing.
But they trusted that Jehovah would assist him.
And he did through donated land, materials, and willing volunteers.
Yes, we can truly put our confidence in Jehovah
as he guides us through this system of things.
Such trust in Jehovah is highlighted in this month's music video,
entitled Confident in You.
Like a tree planted in the ground,
your words have sunk deep down into my heart
and soothed my mind with gentle thoughts of peace.
This wisdom from all these have these truths to keep.
Reminding what Jehovah said.
This month we have seen how trusting in Jehovah and his guidance
can assist us in a variety of ways.
Addressing issues with a close friend, our choices in entertainment,
and even coping with the world filled with social injustice.
Certainly, Jehovah is someone in whom we can trust.
But we have one last treat for you before we end our program.
We'll briefly travel to Katas, Spain.
Katas is considered to be one of the oldest cities in Western Europe
and was founded by the Phoenicians.
It is situated on a narrow slice of land surrounded by the sea.
Katas has a wealth of vistas and well-preserved historical landmarks.
On the outskirts lies Puerto de Santa Maria,
where in English-speaking congregation meets.
This congregation is made up mainly of brothers and sisters serving as need graders.
They have come from other parts of Spain,
as well as distant lands such as Australia, Britain, Canada and the United States.
Katas has a high rate of unemployment, so finding work is not easy.
One couple travels nearly 300 miles or 483 kilometers every Thursday to their territory
and on Monday morning make the trip back to where they live and work.
In spite of these financial challenges, many are still serving as construction volunteers,
remote battle workers and pioneers.
Our brothers and sisters in Puerto de Santa Maria are thrilled to send their love and greetings to you all.
This is JW Broadcasting from the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.